Sometimes you need to leave it alone. Just because it's constantly moving doesn't mean you're improving your food.

Huge amounts of random spices make food taste bad. Learn what they are and where to use them.

Cooking is so much easier when you do the prep first and then just worry about what's in the pan when the heat is on.

Read the whole recipe before you touch anything including the directions.

Know if any ingredients you are using are already salty and adjust accordingly.

Keep your fingertips behind your knuckles, your knife in front of your knuckles, and keep your blade on the cutting board.

Cut from the rear of the blade, not the tip.

Season during the cooking process and not at the very end.

A falling knife has no handle. Just get out of the way.

If you have a knife block, put your knives in upside down. It'll help save the edge as long as possible.

To save your knives, skip the dishwasher and wash them by hand.

Need to thicken sauces or soups? Learn to roux.

Don't just be a robot following a recipe. Food is an art.

Cooking is art. Baking is a science experiment.

Do as much as you can before you start actually putting flame to pan. The prep beforehand will save you time and stress later.

Be careful where you store spices. Heat and moisture are bad to just about anything.

Make as much as you can from scratch, not only is it cheaper, but it will save time in the long run with bulk batches and will taste considerably better.

Start and finish by washing your hands you filthy animal.

Keep your kitchen as clean as possible. The less the mess, the less the stress.

Practice makes perfect.

Be sure that meat, poultry, seafood, and other cooked foods reach a safe minimum internal temperature.

When chopping herbs, toss a little sprinkle of salt on the cutting board. It prevents them from flying all over the place.

When seasoning meats, sprinkle down on the meat like its snowing. Sprinkle off your elbow to impress your friends.

While baking, make sure your butter and eggs (or substitutes) are all room temperature. Although butter might be chilled or near frozen for certain pastry recipes.

When shucking corn, after cutting the corn off with the blade side, use the backside of the knife to scrape the corn milk out of the husk. You can then add the milk to improve flavor or just drink it, its alright to drink.

Taste as you go.

Beware of using oil in boiling pasta. The oily residue will prevent the sauce from sticking to the pasta.

Washing your rice makes it fluffier and less sticky.

The key to not crying when cutting onions is to not form an emotional bond.

Never cook with a wine you wouldn't be willing to drink, yet also don't break out the "good stuff".

Put a dent in the top of the patty with your thumb before putting it on the grill.

Don't use metal utensils in your non-stick pan. Don't think about where the scraped off parts went.

Measuring by volume with dry ingredients can be inconsistent due to different scooping styles.

Sharp objects may seem scary at first, but with proper form, technique, and some attention, you should never cut yourself.

Dull knives cut like dog chews, behave erratically, and are just plain dangerous.

Clean up as you go.

If your dish is 'missing something' chances are it is acidity. Adding some lemon juice for example might make all the difference.

Acidity, salt and horseradish all bring out the fullest flavors in food.

Cast iron actually heats much more unevenly than aluminum or stainless steel pans.

Iceberg is the enemy of an interesting salad.

Don't always assume that just because you're not cooking it, it doesn't need seasoning. --- The word salad is based off the latin word for salt. Hint, hint.

Instead of oily dressings, try salt and pepper with a splash of balsamic or cider vinegar.

Fresh basil leaves are a tomato's best friend.

All of your ingredients before hand should be prepped and ready. This is referred to as "mis en place".

High heat oils (use in searing, pan fry): coconut oil, peanut oil, bacon fat --- Medium heat oils (use in eggs, vegetables): avocado oil, butter --- Low heat oils (drizzle over salads or steamed veggies): olive oil, pistachio oil, walnut oil, or anything with a strong flavor that you want to preserve

Salt boiling water to increase its temperature.

Try new things.

Date and label leftover foods.

Boiling pasta at full heat then lowering it later makes the pasta sticky.

Don't be hasty to alter a new dish until its cooked a few times and you have a genuine idea what might work better.

Work it harder, make it better, do it faster, makes us stronger.

Try strawberry and coriander.

Try mango and pine extract.

Try banana and parsley.

Try chocolate and red wine.

Try pineapple and white wine

Try mint and mustard. Minty honey mustard, anyone?

Consider using coffee instead of stock for gravies.

How come when you mix water and flour together you get glue, but then you add eggs and sugar and you get cake? Where does the glue go?

In order to make anything from scratch, you must first create the universe.

Try substituting 1/2 mashed banana or 1/3 cup applesauce for each egg.

Refrigerate: apples, beans, berries, broccoli, carrots, celery, cherries, eggplant, grapes, jalapenos, leafy greens, zucchini. --- Keep at room temperature: avocados, apricots, bananas, citrus, garlic, kiwi, melons, onions, pears, peaches, pineapple, potatoes.
